\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename vguitar.info
@include version.texi
@settitle Virtual Guitar (vguitar) @value{VERSION}

@c Define a new index for options.
@c @defcodeindex op
@c Combine everything into one index (arbitrarily chosen to be the
@c concept index).
@c @syncodeindex op
@c %**end of header

@copying
This manual is for Virtual Guitar (vguitar) (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}).


Copyright @copyright{} 2017,2018 Nicholas C. Strauss

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the section entitled
``GNU Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation
@end copying
@c If your manual is published on paper by the FSF, it should include
@c the standard FSF Front-Cover and Back-Cover Texts, as given in
@c maintain.texi.

@dircategory Basics
@direntry
* Vguitar: (vguitar).               Vguitar, GNU world.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title GNU Vguitar
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@author Nick Strauss (@email{nicks@@nick-strauss.com})
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents


@ifnottex
@node TOP
@top GNU Vguitar

This manual is for Virtual Guitar (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}).
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::		General purpose and information.
* Invoking vguitar::	How to run @command{vguitar}.
* Modes::               Tablature, map, strum modes
* Tablature mode::      Tablature mode introduction
* Tablature keyboard::  Tablature keyboard
* Map mode::            Map mode introduction TODO
* Map keyboard::        Map keyboard TODO
* Strum mode::          Strum mode introduction
* Strum keyboard::      Strum keyboard
* Tunings::             Standard and other tunings TODO
* Sample output::	Sample output from @command{vguitar}.
* Examples::            Examples TODO
* Reporting bugs::	Sending bug reports and feature suggestions.
* GNU Free Documentation License:: Copying and sharing this documentation.
* Concept index::	Index of concepts.
@end menu


@node Overview,,,TOP
@chapter Overview
@cindex Introduction
Vguitar is a virtual guitar instrument for ALSA drivers. It's a GNU/Linux ncurses 
six string guitar in a terminal.
Enjoy music, the guitar, with your keyboard. :->

@node Modes,,,TOP
Vguitar repurposes its virtual fret board to support the different requirements of the
guitar player. The fret board looks mostly the same, but its meaning changes in different
modes. At any given time, only one mode is active, you can start vguitar in a mode, and 
while running, you can switch between modes using the HOME and END keys. 

@node Strum mode,,,TOP
@cindex Strum mode
Strum mode (-S) models the guitar geometry of of six strings with the play initiated by the touch of the spacebar key.
Touch the key 'u' once, plays of a roll from high to low, twice from low to high. Touching the keys
 '.' and '-' shorten/lengthen the roll.

One can customize the roll using a sequence noted on the bridge. An example of this is Travis picking.
'b' to play the strings according the sequence noted on the bridge. 

Just like in a real guitar, one can set a string to be open or closed, and place one's virtual 
fingers on the various frets along the strings, by marking an entry using the 'k' key. Mark open strings using the 'o' key.

Add strum patterns on the command line (-q), and select with PAGE-UP and PAGE-DOWN keys. Chords
can also be added on the command line (--chord) and also remembered (-R), and also push-pop stacked (-M and -P).

@cindex Tablature mode
@node Tablature mode,,,TOP
In tablature mode, the melody plays along horizontal (X) axis which represents time with each
fret a quarter note. The vertical (Y) axis are the six strings of the guitar with the high E
at the top, and low E at the bottom. Entries are numbers that specify the fret held for a given string.
So the Vguitar fretboard represents time and strings, with the numbers corresponding to the fret.

@menu
0 corresponds to an open note. 
Mark entry by using a number.
Play a clip with 'c' or using the space key. 
You can lengthen a note with '-' and shrink a note with '.'.
You can add a rest with the octothorpe '#'. 
TODO You can add a slide by adding a forward slash '/' between adjacent columns. 
@end menu

@cindex Map mode
@node Map mode,,,TOP
 TODO
In map mode,  models the guitar geometry of of six strings with the play initiated by the touch of the spacebar key.
One can set a string to be played at a fret, hammered on, or sliding from from one fret to another. The number
that one enters specifies the play sequence. So for example for the high B string in EADGBE tuning, one can enter 1 on
the first, and enter 2 on the third fret with the slide. 


@node Sample output,,,TOP
@chapter Sample output

@node Invoking vguitar,,,TOP
@chapter Invoking @command{vguitar}
@cindex invoking
@cindex options
@cindex usage
@cindex help

The best way to see command line options for vguitar, for invoking and running vguitar is to type
``man vguitar'' or ``vguitar --help''

@node Tunings,,,TOP
@chapter Tunings

@node Strum keyboard,,,TOP
@chapter Strum Keyboard

In strum (-S) mode, the keyboard is configured as following:

@table @option

@item space
sound a strum

@item m
mute on/off

@item u
roll up/down

@item k
mark key for chord

@item [j|l] [n|p] - 
cursor motion

@item Keys [eadgbh]
move cursor to string E, A, D, G, B H (h is hi-E)

@item Keys [0...9]
move cursor to fret number

@item Keys [.|-] 
shorten/lengthen the roll

@end table


@node Tablature keyboard,,,TOP

@table @option

@item space 
move cursor to next time

@item Keys[0...9] 
set fret number

@item Key Octothorpe '#'
sets a rest.

@item Key Forward Slash '/'
sets a slide.

@item Keys '[' and ']' 
set the clip interval

@item Key 'c' (or space bar)
plays selected clip

@item Keys [j|l] [n|p] 
move cursor

@item Keys [eadgbh] 
move cursor to string (h is hi-E)

@item Key [x] 
delete the note

@item Keys [.|-] 
shorten/lengthen the note
@end table

@node Map keyboard,,,TOP

@node Examples,,,TOP
vguitar -A 130 -P 0 -c -t --input auld-lang-syne.txt

vguitar -A 130 -P 0 --strum --roll=0.1

@node Reporting bugs,,,TOP
@chapter Reporting bugs

@cindex bug reporting
@cindex problems
@cindex reporting bugs

To report bugs, suggest enhancements or otherwise discuss GNU Vguitar,
please send electronic mail to @email{nicks@@nick-strauss.com}

@cindex checklist for bug reports
For bug reports, please include enough information for the maintainers
to reproduce the problem.  Generally speaking, that means:

@itemize @bullet
@item The version numbers of Vguitar (which you can find by running
      @w{@samp{vguitar --version}}) and any other program(s) or
      manual(s) involved.
@item Hardware and operating system names and versions.
@item The contents of any input files necessary to reproduce the bug.
@item The expected behavior and/or output.
@item A description of the problem and samples of any erroneous output.
@item Options you gave to @command{configure} other than specifying
      installation directories.
@item Anything else that you think would be helpful.
@end itemize

When in doubt whether something is needed or not, include it.  It's
better to include too much than to leave out something important.

@cindex patches, contributing
Patches are welcome; if possible, please make them with @samp{@w{diff
-c}} (@pxref{Top,, Overview, diff, Comparing and Merging Files}) and
include @file{ChangeLog} entries (@pxref{Change Log,,, emacs, The GNU
Emacs Manual}).  Please follow the existing coding style.


@node GNU Free Documentation License,,,TOP
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License

@include fdl.texi


@node Concept index,,,TOP
@unnumbered Concept index

@printindex cp

@bye
